---
layout: post
date:   2020-05-08 13:21
categories: "Current-Affairs"
permalink: /:categories/:year/:month/:day/:title:output_ext
assets: "ca-assets"
# Put the new title here
title:  "Visakhapatnam Gas Leak Tragedy"

# put the story image url here
image: "2020-05-08-post2.jpg"

# put the story summary here
summary:  "Styrene gas leaked from LG Polymers Plant in Vishakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh. The plant was located about 15 km from the coastal city of Vizag."

---

___

Styrene gas leaked from LG Polymers Plant in Vishakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh. The plant was located about 15 km from the coastal city of Vizag. The changes in temperature inside a storage tank resulted in a leak.
Around 5 villages were affected due to the leak. The gas has spread across a radius of 3 km affecting at least 5 villages and over 3000 people. According to the sources, a gas leak occurred on 7th May – Thursday at 2 AM on in the morning and quickly spread to around 5 villages in the vicinity of RR Venkatapuram where the plant is located.
What is Styrene Gas?
• Styrene is a chemical compound that has been identified as neuro-toxins.
• It is also known as ethenylbenzene, vinylbenzene, and phenylephrine.
• The chemical formula of Styrene Gas is C6H5CH=CH2.
• Styrene gas is a by-product of highly flammable raw material Styrene.
• The gas produced by burning styrene is poisonous in nature. Coming to chemical properties, Styrene Gas is a colour-less and odour-less compound.
Health Impacts of Styrene Gas:
• Styrene gas affects the respiratory system.
• It causes chest congestion, gasping, air hunger and wheezing.
• It slowly paralyses the lung muscles causing complete respiratory paralysis. This leads to death due to oxygen deprivation.
• Death occurs within 10 minutes of continuous exposure to concentrate Styrene gas.
___  
