---
layout: post
date:   2020-04-21 13:21
categories: "General-Knowledge"
permalink: /:categories/:year/:month/:day/:title:output_ext
assets: "gk-assets"
# Put the new title here
title:  "UDST to fund Seagull BioSolutions for vaccine production"

# put the story image url here
image: "2020-04-21-post1.jpg"

# put the story summary here
summary:  "The Department of Science and Technology (DST), under the Ministry of Science & Technology, is to fund Seagull BioSolutions Pvt. Ltd. (SBPL) to undertake the development of Active Virosome (AV) Vaccine and Immunodiagnostic kits for COVID-19 ."

---

___

The Department of Science and Technology (DST), under the Ministry of Science & Technology, is to fund Seagull BioSolutions Pvt. Ltd. (SBPL) to undertake the development of Active Virosome (AV) Vaccine and Immunodiagnostic kits for COVID-19 . • Active Virosome Technology (AVT) developed by Seagull Bio is useful for the production of vaccines & immunotherapeutic agent. • The AVT platform is useful for producing novel, non-hazardous & economical Active Virosome agents expressing desired antigens from the target pathogen. • The AVT used to develop a novel vaccine for the prevention of COVID-19 infection and also immunodiagnostic ELISA kits for COVID-19. • Seagull Biobased out of Entrepreneurship Development Center (Venture Center), Pune, and supported under Seed Support System of the Technology Development Board (TDB), DST is producing two types of Active Virosome (AV) agents. SBPL will produce two types of AV agents – one expressing S protein of COVID-19 (AV-S) and another one expressing structural proteins of COVID-19 (AV-SPs). SBPL is currently amplifying the synthesis of both these agents upto 10 mg levels so that their immunogenicity can be tested. This test will first be performed in wild type mice to ascertain the ability of AV-S & AV-SPs to induce anti-COVID-19 neutralizing antibodies & cellular immune response(s). • SBPL will also use the Active Virosomes expressing S protein of COVID-19 as an antigen for developing immunodiagnostic kits. IgM captures ELISA kits, IgG type antibody detecting ELISA kits, and a Lateral flow (LFA) immunodiagnostic test will be produced. LFA tests will empower individual citizens of India to test themselves easily & ensure that they remain disease-free. • SBPL expects the Immunodiagnostic kits to be ready for field trials by the end of Aug 2020 and approved by the end of 10-11 months. On the other hand, the AV vaccine is expected to take a longer time. However, given the emergency situation, SBPL aims to complete the proof of concept in 80 days & complete preclinical development & start Phase I trial by the end of 18-20 months.
___  
