---
layout: post
date:   2020-05-06 13:21
categories: "General-Knowledge"
permalink: /:categories/:year/:month/:day/:title:output_ext
assets: "gk-assets"
# Put the new title here
title:  "NarendraModi participates in online Summit of NAM Contact Group"

# put the story image url here
image: "2020-05-06-post4.jpg"

# put the story summary here
summary:  "Indian Prime Minister NarendraModi took part in the online Summit of Non Aligned Movement (NAM) Contact Group. The summit was held with an objective to discuss response,"

---

___

Indian Prime Minister NarendraModi took part in the online Summit of Non Aligned Movement (NAM) Contact Group. The summit was held with an objective to discuss response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic crisis as well as to promote international solidarity in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The summit was hosted by the current Chairman of NAM, President of Republic of Azerbaijan HE IlhamAliyev, with the theme“United against COVID-19”.
i.NAM Leaders assessed the impact of COVID-19, identified needs and requirements for possible remedies and urged action-oriented follow-up measures.
ii.Following the summit, the leaders adopted a Declaration underlining the importance of international solidarity in the fight against COVID-19.
iii.Leaders announced the creation of a ‘Task Force’ to identify needs and requirements of member states through the establishment of a common database reflecting their basic medical, social and humanitarian needs in the fight against COVID-19.
iv.The Summit was addressed by the President of the UN General Assembly (UNGA) Prof TijjaniMuhammedBande, UN Secretary-GeneralMr.AntonioGuterres, African Union (AU) Chairperson Musa FakiMahamat, European Union (EU) High Representative, JosepBorrell, and Director-General of the World Health Organization (WHO) Dr. TedrosGhebreyesus.
About NAM:
i.It was found in 1961 by initiatives of Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt, Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana, Jawaharlal Nehru of India, Ahmed Sukarno of Indonesia and Josip Broz Tito of Yugoslavia & has 120 member states, 17 Observer Countries and 10 Observer organizations.
ii.The basic concept for the group originated in 1955 during the Bandung Conference held in Indonesia, “Ten Principles of Bandung”, was proclaimed in the conference which was later adopted as the main goals and objectives of the policy of NAM
iii.The 1st NAM Summit Conference was held in Cairo, Egypt from 5-12 June 1961.

___  
